Constitution of the Screening Committee

— examining the Proposals relating to

Model Code of Conduct (MCC)

Government of Gujarat
General Administration Department
No. MCC-102024-UOR-01-T
Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
Date:06-07-2026. |

Read: U.O.R. note from Chief Electoral Officer, Gujarat. Dated: 03-07-2026
Resolution:

The Election Commission of India issues detailed guidelines and instructions on
regulation and enforcement of various aspects of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) during
election time. In view of the Bye Election to 145-Manjalpur Legislative Assembly
Constituency, Office of Chief Electoral Officer, Gujarat vide its U.O.R. note dated 03-07-
2026 read as above, request to constitute a Screening Committee headed by Chief Secretary
of the State for examining the Proposals relating to Mode Code of conduct (MCC).

The State Government, therefore, hereby constitutes the following Screening
Committee.

(i) |ChiefSecretary Chairman _
General Administration Department.
the department(s) to which the proposal
. related.

2. The above committee shall examine each proposal, before sending it to ECI, through
the CEO concerned, in the light of the Commission’s existing instructions /clarifications
available in the form of Manual on Model Code of conduct/compendium / instructions
available on the Commission’s website (www.eci.gov.in). The proposals cleared by the
Screening Committee shall be submitted to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Gujarat
along with full details and a note on urgency, i.e. why the proposal cannot wait till
completion of poll/election. The detail instructions in this regard for the procedure to be
adopted for submission of proposal will be issued separately.

By order and in the name of the Governor of Gujarat,

(Bhagvatsinh Gohil)
Deputy Secretary (Co-ordination)
General Administration Department
Government of Gujarat


Copy forwarded for information and necessary action to :

e The Secretary / Principal Secretary / Additional Chief Secretary, all departments of
Secretariat, New Sachivalaya Complex, Sector-10/A, Gandhinagar.

e The Chief Electoral Officer, Gujarat State, Gandhinagar.

e The Additional Secretary to Chief Secretary, Government of Gujarat.

e All Heads of Departments.

e The System Manager, General Administration Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
