. Procedure to be adopted for submission
| . of Proposals by various departments
| relating to Model Code of Conduct

; (MCC) with reference to 145-Manjalpur

Legislative Assembly Constituency
Government of Gujarat
General Administration Department |
No. MCC-102024-UOR-01-T
Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
Date:06-07-2026.
Read: (1)U.O.R. note from Chief Electoral Officer, Gujarat Dated : 03-07-2026.
(2)General Administration Department’s Resolution No. MCC-102024-UOR-01-T
Dated:06-07-2026

Circular:

Office of Chief Electoral Officer, Gujarat vide its U.O.R. note dated 03-07-2026 read
as above at (1), has requested to State Government to constitute a Screening Committee
headed by Chief Secretary of the State to examine each proposal received from various
departments relating to Model Code of Conduct (MCC) before sending it to ECI, through
the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Gujarat State and accordingly Government of Gujarat,
vide its resolution dated 06-07-2026 read as above at (2), has constituted a Screening
Committee. Accordingly, all the departments and HODs are hereby instructed to follow the
guidelines below:

(1) Departments are advised not to forward any reference directly to the Election
Commission of India. The Proposal, which is urgent in nature, and cannot wait till
completion of poll/Election, should be submitted to the Screening Committee headed
by Chief Secretary. Further, no department shall send original file to the Chief
Electoral Officer’s (CEO) office, but only a self-contained reference be sent to the
Screening Committee.

(2) Departments should avoid last minute references since Commission would take
reasonable time to dispose off a reference.

(3) The Screening Committee in turn, shall examine the proposal thus received, before
sending it to ECI, through the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Gujarat State in the
light of the Commission’s existing instructions / clarifications available in the form
of compendium/instructions in “1201 portal’.

(4) The proposals, thus cleared by the Screening Committee shall be submitted to the
Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Gujarat State along with full details and a note on
urgency, i.e. why the proposal cannot wait till completion of poll/election.

(5) The Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) shall forward only such proposal(s) that are
cleared by the aforesaid Screening Committee, to the Commission along with his
comments immediately.


2. All Departments / HODs are requested to strictly adhere to guidelines / instructions
issued by Election Commission of India.
By order and in the name of the Governor of Gujarat,
(Bhagvatsinh Gohil)
Deputy Secretary (Co-ordination)
General Administration Department
Government of Gujarat
Copy forwarded for information and necessary action to :
e The Secretary / Principal Secretary / Additional Chief Secretary, all departments of
Secretariat, New Sachivalaya Complex, Sector-10/A, Gandhinagar.
e The Chief Electoral Officer, Gujarat State, Gandhinagar.
e The Additional Secretary to Chief Secretary, Government of Gujarat.
e All Heads of Departments.
e The System Manager, General Administration Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
