Notification
Home Department,
Sachivalya, Gandhinagar.
Dated the 20" February, 2024.

Constitution No. G/G/30/2024/FSL/102024/119/A:- In exercise of the powers
of India. conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the constitution of India and in

supersession of all the rules made in this behalf, the Governor of Gujarat

hereby makes the following rules to provide for regulating recruitment to

the post of Police Photographer, Class III, in the subordinate service

under the Directorate of Forensic Science, Gujarat State, namely:-

1. (1) These rules may be called the Police Photographer, Class 11, under the
Directorate of Forensic Science, Recruitment Rules, 2024.

(2) They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.

2. Appointment to the post of Police Photographer, Class III, in the
subordinate service under the Directorate of Forensic Science, Gujarat State
shall be made by direct selection.

3. To be eligible for appointment by direct selection to the post mentioned in
tule 2, a candidate shall, -

(a) not be more than 33 years of age:

Provided that the upper age limit may be relaxed in favor of the
candidate who is already in the service of the Government of Gujarat
in accordance with the provisions of the Gujarat Civil Services
Classification and Recruitment (General) Rules, 1967;

(0) have passed the Higher Secondary School Certificate Examination :
with Science subject from Secondary and/or Higher Secondary
Board or possess an equivalent qualification recognised as such by
the Government; .

(c) possess the basic knowledge of computer application as prescribed
in the Gujarat Civil Services Classification and Recruitment
(General) Rules, 1967;


(તં) (1) possess about two years’ experience in indoor and outdoor
photography;
(ii) have a knowledge of qualities of various type of photographic
materials and equipment; and
(11) be conversant with various specified photographic process such
as photography of documents with use of Transmitted Light,
Ultraviolet and Infrared Film, Micro Photography, movie
photography and working knowledge with 16mm sound projectors;
and

(e) possess the adequate knowledge of Gujarati or Hindi or both.

4. The provisions of rule 9A of the Gujarat Civil Services Classification and
Recruitment (General) Rules, 1967 shall be applicable in respect of the
candidate appointed by direct selection.

5. The candidate appointed by direct selection shall be required to undergo
such training and pass such examination as may be prescribed by the
Government. .

6. The candidate appointed by direct selection shall be required to furnish a
security and surety bond in such form, for such amount and for such period
as may be prescribed by the Government.

By order and in the name of the Govermor of Gujarat,
,
(K.V. ie docha)
Deputy Secretary to Government.

Copy forwarded with compliments to:-
- The Secretary to the Governor of Gujarat, Gandhinagar.(By Letter)
- The Principal Secretary to the Hon’ble Chief Minister, Swarnim Sankool-1, Gandhinagar.
- The Personal Secretary to MoS(Home), Swarnim Sankool-2, Gandhinagar.
- The Director, Directorate of Forensic Science, Gujarat State, Gandhinagar.
- The Legal Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
- The General Administration Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
- The Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
- The Manager, Government Central Press, Gandhinagar.

(With a request to publish this notification in the Gujarat Government Gazette and to furnish 10 copies to

this Department immediately. )

anes Home Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar. (With a request to upload this Notification on

the Department’s Website.)
- The select file ર
- Dy.S.O. Select file
